Add GPU acceleration documentation (#2384)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _ml-commons-plugin/gpu-acceleration.md

If the `nvidia-uvm` does not exist, run the `nvidia-uvm-init.sh` script. 

```
#!/bin/bash
## Script to initialize nvidia device nodes.
## https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-installation-guide-linux/index.html#runfile-verifications
/sbin/modprobe nvidia
if [ "$?" -eq 0 ]; then
  # Count the number of NVIDIA controllers found.
  NVDEVS=`lspci | grep -i NVIDIA`
  N3D=`echo "$NVDEVS" | grep "3D controller" | wc -l`
  NVGA=`echo "$NVDEVS" | grep "VGA compatible controller" | wc -l`
  N=`expr $N3D + $NVGA - 1`
  for i in `seq 0 $N`; do
    mknod -m 666 /dev/nvidia$i c 195 $i
  done
  mknod -m 666 /dev/nvidiactl c 195 255
else
  exit 1
fi
/sbin/modprobe nvidia-uvm
if [ "$?" -eq 0 ]; then
  # Find out the major device number used by the nvidia-uvm driver
  D=`grep nvidia-uvm /proc/devices | awk '{print $1}'`
  mknod -m 666 /dev/nvidia-uvm c $D 0
  mknod -m 666 /dev/nvidia-uvm-tools c $D 0
else
  exit 1
fi
```

After verification that `nvidia-uvm` exists under `/dev`, you can start OpenSearch inside your cluster. 

> ### Mount AWS Inferentia

Reviewer: This is not to "Mount" AWS Inferentia, just steps to prepare AWS Inferentia ML node. For AWS Inferentia , it doesn't have device mount issue.

Author: Switched to "Prepare".

Reviewer: Prepare looks good, then maybe we should change to "Prepare AWS Inferentia ML node"

Depending on the Linux operating system running on AWS Inferentia, use the follow commands and scripts to set provision an ML node and get OpenSearch running inside your cluster.

Download OpenSearch and install in your Linux instance's home folder.

```
cd ~; wget https://artifacts.opensearch.org/releases/bundle/opensearch/2.5.0/opensearch-2.5.0-linux-x64.tar.gz
tar -xvf opensearch-2.5.0-linux-x64.tar.gz

echo "export OS_HOME=~/opensearch-2.5.0" | tee -a ~/.bash_profile
echo "export PYTORCH_VERSION=1.12.1" | tee -a ~/.bash_profile
source ~/.bash_profile
```

Next, create a shell script file called `prepare_torch_neuron.sh`. Use the following examples based on your Linux operating system. After you've run the scripts, exit your current terminal and open a new terminal to start OpenSearch.

> GPU acceleration only supports Ubuntu 20.04 and Amazon Linux2.

Reviewer: "only supports" Not accurate here. We just tested on Ubuntu 20.04 and Amazon Linux2. It's possible to support other system. We will do more testing later.

Author: Changed note to, "GPU acceleration has only been tested on Ubuntu 20.04 and Amazon Linux2. However, other you can use other Linux operating systems."

pip install -U pip

# Set Pip repository  to point to the Neuron repository
pip config set global.extra-index-url https://pip.repos.neuron.amazonaws.com

#Install Neuron PyTorch
pip install torch-neuron torchvision
# If need to trace neuron model, install torch neuron with this command
# pip install torch-neuron neuron-cc[tensorflow] "protobuf<4" torchvision

# If need to trace neuron model, install transformers for tracing Huggingface model.
# pip install transformers

# Copy torch neuron lib to OpenSearch
PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH=~/pytorch_venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/torch_neuron/lib/
mkdir -p $OS_HOME/lib/torch_neuron; cp -r $PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH/ $OS_HOME/lib/torch_neuron
export PYTORCH_EXTRA_LIBRARY_PATH=$OS_HOME/lib/torch_neuron/lib/libtorchneuron.so
echo "export PYTORCH_EXTRA_LIBRARY_PATH=$OS_HOME/lib/torch_neuron/lib/libtorchneuron.so" | tee -a ~/.bash_profile
# Increase JVm stack size to >=2MB
echo "-Xss2m" | tee -a $OS_HOME/config/jvm.options
# Increase max file descriptors to 65535
echo "$(whoami) - nofile 65535" | sudo tee -a /etc/security/limits.conf
# max virtual memory areas vm.max_map_count to 262144
sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144
```

> ## Install GPU accelerator drivers manually

Reviewer: The doc structure seems confusing. This part is only for AWS Inferentia.

How about organize by different GPU devices like this doc https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/blob/2.x/docs/model_serving_framework/GPU_support.md,

Author: I'll add note on the header here.

Reviewer 2: Is this copied from AWS documentation, or are there steps specific to OpenSearch? If these steps are purely specific to compiling models on the Neuron SDK, I recommend linking to the AWS documentation. It will avoid the problem of these steps becoming outdated.

Author: Decided to keep the step since the Neuron docs don't include on how install the Neuron SDK by itself.

> If the previous two scripts do not provision your GPU accelerated node properly, you can install the drivers manually. For information on how to do so, see [Deploy on AWS accelerator instance](https://awsdocs-neuron.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/frameworks/torch/torch-neuron/setup/pytorch-install.html#deploy-on-aws-ml-accelerator-instance).

Reviewer: This neuron AWS doc doesn't contain everything needed to prepare AWS Inferentia ML node. How about link to this doc https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/blob/2.x/docs/model_serving_framework/GPU_support.md#22-manual-way

## Next steps

> If you want to try your new GPU accelerated ML node with a pre-trained HuggingFace model, see [Compiling and Deploying HuggingFace Pretrained BERT](https://awsdocs-neuron.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/src/examples/pytorch/bert_tutorial/tutorial_pretrained_bert.html).

Reviewer: This doc is only for AWS Inferentia, can't use this doc for NVIDIA GPU.

Author: Added note to that effect.

---
layout: default
title: GPU acceleration
parent: Model-serving framework
nav_order: 150
---

# GPU acceleration 

When running a natural language processing (NLP) model in your OpenSearch cluster with a machine learning (ML) node, you can achieve better performance on the ML node using graphic processing unit (GPU) acceleration. GPUs can work in tandem with the central processing unit (CPU) memory of your cluster to speed up the model upload and training. 

## Supported GPUs

> Currently, ML nodes only support GPU acceleration from two GPU devices:

Author: I'll make this more specific.

If the `nvidia-uvm` does not exist, run the `nvidia-uvm-init.sh` script. 

```
#!/bin/bash
## Script to initialize nvidia device nodes.
## https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-installation-guide-linux/index.html#runfile-verifications
/sbin/modprobe nvidia
if [ "$?" -eq 0 ]; then
  # Count the number of NVIDIA controllers found.
  NVDEVS=`lspci | grep -i NVIDIA`
  N3D=`echo "$NVDEVS" | grep "3D controller" | wc -l`
  NVGA=`echo "$NVDEVS" | grep "VGA compatible controller" | wc -l`
  N=`expr $N3D + $NVGA - 1`
  for i in `seq 0 $N`; do
    mknod -m 666 /dev/nvidia$i c 195 $i
  done
  mknod -m 666 /dev/nvidiactl c 195 255
else
  exit 1
fi
/sbin/modprobe nvidia-uvm
if [ "$?" -eq 0 ]; then
  # Find out the major device number used by the nvidia-uvm driver
  D=`grep nvidia-uvm /proc/devices | awk '{print $1}'`
  mknod -m 666 /dev/nvidia-uvm c $D 0
  mknod -m 666 /dev/nvidia-uvm-tools c $D 0
else
  exit 1
fi
```

After verification that `nvidia-uvm` exists under `/dev`, you can start OpenSearch inside your cluster. 

### Prepare AWS Inferentia

> Depending on the Linux operating system running on AWS Inferentia, use the follow commands and scripts to set provision an ML node and get OpenSearch running inside your cluster.

Reviewer 3: In which circumstances would the commands differ? Can you call out which flavor of Linux these instructions are for so the reader knows when they wouldn't be able to use them directly?

> Download OpenSearch and install in your Linux instance's home folder.

Reviewer 3: Phrasing here -

"Download and unpack OpenSearch and define important environment variables."

Don't prescribe a folder for the installation - that's out of scope and a user should decide implementation details like that. It's also bad practice to install a host service in a user's home folder (there is no such thing as a Linux instance's home folder).

Author: The folder does matter later in the process, since the neuron library will be copied to the location of your OpenSearch configuration files.

```

> cd ~; wget https://artifacts.opensearch.org/releases/bundle/opensearch/2.5.0/opensearch-2.5.0-linux-x64.tar.gz

Reviewer 3: Why is a tarball being used for this example? Why not YUM?

Reviewer: This is based on the doc https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/blob/2.x/docs/model_serving_framework/GPU_support.md, which did testing on Ubuntu and Amazon Linux2. We can add this link here https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/install-and-configure/index/

Reviewer: Should we ask user to download OpenSearch from https://opensearch.org/, then refer to this doc https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/install-and-configure/index/ for install? This example command is only for 2.5, that mean we need to change this part when new version ready.

Author: I am ok with that.

tar -xvf opensearch-2.5.0-linux-x64.tar.gz

echo "export OS_HOME=~/opensearch-2.5.0" | tee -a ~/.bash_profile
echo "export PYTORCH_VERSION=1.12.1" | tee -a ~/.bash_profile
source ~/.bash_profile
```

> Next, create a shell script file called `prepare_torch_neuron.sh`. Use the following examples based on your Linux operating system. After you've run the scripts, exit your current terminal and open a new terminal to start OpenSearch.

Reviewer 3: `After you've run the scripts, exit your current terminal and open a new terminal to start OpenSearch.`

What is the second script? Maybe rephrase:

`After the script completes, restart your shell session and start OpenSearch.`

Reason being, a user doesn't need to exit terminal and launch a new one. They could just use `source` and point to their shell profile script. That would have the same effect.

> GPU acceleration has only been tested on Ubuntu 20.04 and Amazon Linux2. However, other you can use other Linux operating systems.

Reviewer 3: Amazon Linux 2 (needs a space)

{: .note}

#### Ubuntu 20.04

```

> . /etc/os-release

Reviewer 3: Break this out into individual steps instead of a code block since they are sequential commands that need to be run manually.

Reviewer 3: Also...What is `. /etc/os-release`?  Is that supposed to have a `cat` in front?

Author: In AWS Inferentia, it contains environment variables for the Inferentia instance. This line pulls those variables for use in different parts of the script.

####################################################################################
# Warning: If Linux kernel is updated as a result of OS package update
#          Neuron driver (aws-neuron-dkms) should be re-installed after reboot
####################################################################################

# Install Neuron Tools
sudo apt-get install aws-neuronx-tools -y

######################################################
#   Only for Ubuntu 20 - Install Python3.7
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:deadsnakes/ppa
sudo apt-get install python3.7
######################################################
# Install Python venv and activate Python virtual environment to install    
# Neuron pip packages.
cd ~
sudo apt-get install -y python3.7-venv g++
python3.7 -m venv pytorch_venv
source pytorch_venv/bin/activate
pip install -U pip

# Set Pip repository  to point to the Neuron repository
pip config set global.extra-index-url https://pip.repos.neuron.amazonaws.com

#Install Neuron PyTorch
pip install torch-neuron torchvision
# If need to trace neuron model, install torch neuron with this command
# pip install torch-neuron neuron-cc[tensorflow] "protobuf==3.20.1" torchvision

> # If need to trace neuron model, install transformers for tracing Huggingface model.

Reviewer 3: What?

# pip install transformers

# Copy torch neuron lib to OpenSearch
PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH=~/pytorch_venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/torch_neuron/lib/
mkdir -p $OS_HOME/lib/torch_neuron; cp -r $PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH/ $OS_HOME/lib/torch_neuron
export PYTORCH_EXTRA_LIBRARY_PATH=$OS_HOME/lib/torch_neuron/lib/libtorchneuron.so
echo "export PYTORCH_EXTRA_LIBRARY_PATH=$OS_HOME/lib/torch_neuron/lib/libtorchneuron.so" | tee -a ~/.bash_profile

# Increase JVm stack size to >=2MB
echo "-Xss2m" | tee -a $OS_HOME/config/jvm.options
# Increase max file descriptors to 65535
echo "$(whoami) - nofile 65535" | sudo tee -a /etc/security/limits.conf
# max virtual memory areas vm.max_map_count to 262144
sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144
```

#### Amazon Linux2

```

> # Configure Linux for Neuron repository updates

Reviewer 3: Break all of these out into individual steps, don't put them in a massive code block.

Author: These scripts are based on the [Neuron documentation](https://awsdocs-neuron.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/frameworks/torch/torch-neuronx/setup/pytorch-install.html), with customization's to memory to allow Neuron to be used in OpenSearch.  I'm open to breaking out the steps specific to OpenSearch, but would need to submit a PR on the Neuron docs in order to fix spelling and grammar issues within the script itself.

Reviewer 3: A script would start with a #!/bin/bash - these are just collections of one-line commands.

Author: Fixed the language in the comments, but after consulting @ylwu-amzn, I've decided to keep the scripts together. We expect that system architects will copy the contents into one script file insides their cluster. Keeping them together makes completing that step easier.

Author: Also, our build script doesn't with `#!/bin/bash`, see https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/main/build.sh

pip config set global.extra-index-url https://pip.repos.neuron.amazonaws.com

#Install Neuron PyTorch
pip install torch-neuron torchvision
# If need to trace neuron model, install torch neuron with this command
# pip install torch-neuron neuron-cc[tensorflow] "protobuf<4" torchvision

# If need to trace neuron model, install transformers for tracing Huggingface model.
# pip install transformers

# Copy torch neuron lib to OpenSearch
PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH=~/pytorch_venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/torch_neuron/lib/
mkdir -p $OS_HOME/lib/torch_neuron; cp -r $PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH/ $OS_HOME/lib/torch_neuron
export PYTORCH_EXTRA_LIBRARY_PATH=$OS_HOME/lib/torch_neuron/lib/libtorchneuron.so
echo "export PYTORCH_EXTRA_LIBRARY_PATH=$OS_HOME/lib/torch_neuron/lib/libtorchneuron.so" | tee -a ~/.bash_profile
# Increase JVm stack size to >=2MB
echo "-Xss2m" | tee -a $OS_HOME/config/jvm.options
# Increase max file descriptors to 65535
echo "$(whoami) - nofile 65535" | sudo tee -a /etc/security/limits.conf
# max virtual memory areas vm.max_map_count to 262144
sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144
```

## (AWS Inferntia) Install GPU accelerator drivers manually

> If the previous two scripts do not provision your GPU accelerated node properly, you can install the drivers for AWS Inferentia manually.

Reviewer 3: How would a user know whether or not the node has been provisioned properly? We need to provide a check here.

Author: Added a note about this.

> 1. Deploy an AWS accelerator instance based on your chosen Linux operating system. For instructions, [Deploy on AWS accelerator instance](https://awsdocs-neuron.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/frameworks/torch/torch-neuron/setup/pytorch-install.html#deploy-on-aws-ml-accelerator-instance).

Reviewer 3: "For instructions, see [...]"

2. (Optional) To monitor GPU usage of your accelerator instance, install [Neuron tools](https://awsdocs-neuron.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/frameworks/torch/torch-neuron/setup/pytorch-install.html), which allows models to be used inside your instance.

> 

Reviewer 3: Break these steps out

  ```

>   # Install Neuron Tools

Reviewer 3: Break out these steps

  sudo apt-get install aws-neuronx-tools -y

  export PATH=/opt/aws/neuron/bin:$PATH

  # Test 
  neuron-top
  ```

3. Copy the Neuron library into OpenSearch.

  ```

>   OS_HOME=<OpenSearch installation path>

Reviewer 3: Break these out into individual steps. You start with an env variable declaration but you don't tell the user what it's for. Also, when using <> for parameters there should be no whitespace between them. Make it something like `opensearchInstallationPath` or `opensearch-installation-path` and use all lowercase unless you're doing camel case.

Also, I'm pretty sure `OS_HOME` is wrong. If you do a search in the core repo it has 0 hits so it doesn't exist. The environment variable is `OPENSEARCH_HOME`.

I would take that back for technical review to double check..

Author: Switched to `OPENSEARCH_HOME`.

  # For example, if you install OS_HOME in your home folder, it will be 

>   # OS_HOME=~/opensearch-2.5.0

Reviewer 3: Same as before, `OS_HOME` doesn't exist

  # Activate pytorch_venv first if you haven't. Refer to "Install Driver" part

>   source pytorch_venv/bin/activate

Reviewer 3: Call out that this is activating a virtual environment (that's what venv is short for)

>   # Set pytorch neuron lib path. In this example, we create pytorch_venv in home folder, so 

Reviewer 3: Rephrase these comments - "in home folder"

  PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH=~/pytorch_venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/torch_neuron/lib/

  mkdir -p $OS_HOME/lib/torch_neuron; cp -r $PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH/ $OS_HOME/lib/torch_neuron
  export PYTORCH_EXTRA_LIBRARY_PATH=$OS_HOME/lib/torch_neuron/lib/libtorchneuron.so
  ```

> 4. To make sure we have enough memory to upload a model, increase the JVM stack size to `>+2MB`. 

Reviewer 3: Don't use the term "we" here. It isn't collaborative.

Reviewer 3: Also make sure the reader understands what is happening.

"Increase the maximum JVM stack size to at least 2 MB."

  ```
  echo "-Xss2m" | sudo tee -a $OS_HOME/config/jvm.options
  ```

5. Start OpenSearch. 

### Troubleshooting

> If OpenSearch does not start, you'll receive a response similar to the following:

Reviewer 3: There are a million reasons for why OpenSearch might not start - the max file descriptors and max memory maps are mandatory system settings so you should prescribe these somewhere above in the guide, otherwise you might as well rename this header to:

"Because OpenSearch won't launch with this configuration..."

Or if you feel that there are some instances where those system properties don't need to be set for a manual tar install, rephrase this section to something like: "If OpenSearch does not start, and the following log lines are present in the application logs, then..." or something along those lines.

```
[1]: max file descriptors [8192] for opensearch process is too low, increase to at least [65535]
[2]: max virtual memory areas vm.max_map_count [65530] is too low, increase to at least [262144]
```

> To troubleshoot this error, open a new terminal window and run the following command. This command overrides the `vm.max_map_count` limit to the minimum requirement.

Reviewer 3: Why does the user need to open a new terminal window?

```
echo "$(whoami) - nofile 65535" | sudo tee -a /etc/security/limits.conf
```

With the limit increased, run this command to increase the `vm.max_map_count` to `262114`.

```
sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144
```

## Next steps

> If you want to try out GPU accelerated ML node using AWS Inferentia with a pre-trained HuggingFace model, see [Compiling and Deploying HuggingFace Pretrained BERT](https://awsdocs-neuron.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/src/examples/pytorch/bert_tutorial/tutorial_pretrained_bert.html).

Reviewer 3: Need hyphen and also I think a word or a plural form is missing.

If you want to try out a GPU-accelerated ML node...
or
If you want to try out GPU-accelerated ML nodes

---
layout: default
title: GPU acceleration
parent: Model-serving framework
nav_order: 150
---

# GPU acceleration 

GPU acceleration is an experimental feature. For updates on the progress of GPU acceleration, or if you want to leave feedback that could help improve the feature, join the discussion in the [OpenSearch forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/).    
{: .warning}

When running a natural language processing (NLP) model in your OpenSearch cluster with a machine learning (ML) node, you can achieve better performance on the ML node using graphics processing unit (GPU) acceleration. GPUs can work in tandem with the CPU of your cluster to speed up the model upload and training. 

## Supported GPUs

> Currently, ML nodes support any GPU instances that use CUDA 11.6 or greater, including the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, ML nodes support any GPU instances that use CUDA 11.6 or AWS Inferentia, including the following:
```

> - [NVIDIA G-series instances](https://aws.amazon.com/nvidia/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [NVIDIA instances](https://aws.amazon.com/nvidia/)
```

- [AWS Inferentia](https://aws.amazon.com/machine-learning/inferentia/)

If you need GPU power, you can provision GPU instances through [Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/). For more information on how to provision a GPU instance, see [Recommended GPU Instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dlami/latest/devguide/gpu.html).

## Supported images

You can use GPU acceleration with both [Docker images](https://gitlab.com/nvidia/container-images/cuda/blob/master/doc/supported-tags.md) with CUDA 11.6 and [Amazon Machine Images (AMIs)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AMIs.html).

## PyTorch

> GPU-accelerated ML nodes require [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/index.html) 1.12.1 or greater to work with ML models.

Reviewer: We don't support higher version of pytorch now. Just 1.12.1 tested
```suggestion
GPU-accelerated ML nodes require [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/index.html) 1.12.1 to work with ML models.
```

## Setting up a GPU-accelerated ML node

Depending on the GPU, you can provision a GPU-accelerated ML node manually or by using automated initialization scripts. 

> ### Mounting an nvidia-uvm device

Reviewer: This script is from https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-installation-guide-linux/index.html#device-node-verification, should we use the same title "Device node verification"?

Reviewer: Sorry, just realize this part is at the same level with `### Preparing AWS Inferentia`, then I think we should change to `### Preparing NVIDIA GPU ML node`

If the `nvidia-uvm` kernel does not exist, run `nvidia-uvm-init.sh`:

```
#!/bin/bash
## Script to initialize nvidia device nodes.
## https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-installation-guide-linux/index.html#runfile-verifications
/sbin/modprobe nvidia
if [ "$?" -eq 0 ]; then
  # Count the number of NVIDIA controllers found.
  NVDEVS=`lspci | grep -i NVIDIA`
  N3D=`echo "$NVDEVS" | grep "3D controller" | wc -l`
  NVGA=`echo "$NVDEVS" | grep "VGA compatible controller" | wc -l`
  N=`expr $N3D + $NVGA - 1`
  for i in `seq 0 $N`; do
    mknod -m 666 /dev/nvidia$i c 195 $i
  done
  mknod -m 666 /dev/nvidiactl c 195 255
else
  exit 1
fi
/sbin/modprobe nvidia-uvm
if [ "$?" -eq 0 ]; then
  # Find out the major device number used by the nvidia-uvm driver
  D=`grep nvidia-uvm /proc/devices | awk '{print $1}'`
  mknod -m 666 /dev/nvidia-uvm c $D 0
  mknod -m 666 /dev/nvidia-uvm-tools c $D 0
else
  exit 1
fi
```

After verifying that `nvidia-uvm` exists under `/dev`, you can start OpenSearch inside your cluster. 

> ### Preparing AWS Inferentia

Reviewer: @Naarcha-AWS I see my comment closed https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/pull/2384#discussion_r1067356434, what do you think about changing to "Preparing AWS Inferentia ML node"?

> Prepare looks good, then maybe we should change to "Prepare AWS Inferentia ML node", because "AWS Inferentia" is not something we should prepare. For us, we concern the ML node environment rather than the GPU hardware itself.

# If you need to run the trace neuron model, install transformers for tracing Huggingface model.
# pip install transformers

# Copy torch neuron lib to OpenSearch
PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH=~/pytorch_venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/torch_neuron/lib/
mkdir -p $OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron; cp -r $PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH/ $OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron
export PYTORCH_EXTRA_LIBRARY_PATH=$OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron/lib/libtorchneuron.so
echo "export PYTORCH_EXTRA_LIBRARY_PATH=$OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron/lib/libtorchneuron.so" | tee -a ~/.bash_profile
# Increase JVm stack size to >=2MB
echo "-Xss2m" | tee -a $OPENSEARCH_HOME/config/jvm.options
# Increase max file descriptors to 65535
echo "$(whoami) - nofile 65535" | sudo tee -a /etc/security/limits.conf
# max virtual memory areas vm.max_map_count to 262144
sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144
```

When the script completes running, open a new terminal for the settings to take effect. Then, start OpenSearch.

OpenSearch should now be running inside your GPU-accelerated cluster. However, if any errors occur during provisioning, you can install the GPU accelerator drivers manually.

> ## (AWS Inferentia) Prepare ML node manually

Reviewer: As this part is only for AWS Inferentia, should we put it under `### Preparing AWS Inferentia` ?

2. Set the `PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PAT` path. In this example, we create a `pytorch` virtual environment in the OPENSEARCH_HOME folder:

   ```
   PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH=~/pytorch_venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/torch_neuron/lib/

   mkdir -p $OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron; cp -r  $PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH/ $OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron
   export PYTORCH_EXTRA_LIBRARY_PATH=$OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron/lib/libtorchneuron.so
  ```

3. (Optional) To monitor the GPU usage of your accelerator instance, install [Neuron tools](https://awsdocs-neuron.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/tools/index.html), which allows models to be used inside your instance:

   ```
   # Install Neuron Tools
   sudo apt-get install aws-neuronx-tools -y
   ```

   ```
   # Add Neuron tools your PATH
   export PATH=/opt/aws/neuron/bin:$PATH
   ```
  
   ```
   # Test Neuron tools
   neuron-top
   ```

4. Copy the Neuron library into OpenSearch. The following command uses a directory named `opensearch-2.5.0`:

   ```

>    OPENSEARCH_HOME=~/opensearch-2.5.0

Reviewer: This line is not enough for copying Neuron library into OpenSearch. Should merge this step before step2 "Set the `PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PAT` path."

User should copy neuron lib to OpenSearch lib folder first, then set `PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PAT` path

Reviewer: I see this comment not addressed yet, any plan?

Author: Moved the step to before the PYtorch step.

   ```

5. To make sure you have enough memory to upload a model, increase the JVM stack size to `>+2MB`:

   ```
   echo "-Xss2m" | sudo tee -a $OPENSEARCH_HOME/config/jvm.options
   ```

6. Start OpenSearch. 

### Troubleshooting

> Due to the amount of data required to work with ML models, you might encounter the following `max file descriptors` error when trying to run OpenSearch in a GPU-accelerated cluster: 

Reviewer: This error is general error, not just for GPU-accelerated cluster.
 ```suggestion
Due to the amount of data required to work with ML models, you might encounter the following `max file descriptors` error when trying to run OpenSearch: 
```

---
layout: default
title: GPU acceleration
parent: Model-serving framework
nav_order: 150
---

# GPU acceleration 

> When running a natural language processing (NLP) model in your OpenSearch cluster with a machine learning (ML) node, you can achieve better performance on the ML node using graphic processing unit (GPU) acceleration. GPUs can work in tandem with the central processing unit (CPU) of your cluster to speed up the model upload and training. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When running a natural language processing (NLP) model in your OpenSearch cluster with a machine learning (ML) node, you can achieve better performance on the ML node using graphics processing unit (GPU) acceleration. GPUs can work in tandem with the CPU of your cluster to speed up the model upload and training. 
```

## Supported GPUs

> Currently, ML nodes support any CUDA-enabled GPUs, including the following:

Reviewer: We should clarify here the supported CUDA version is 11.6, supported pytorch version is 1.12.1

> Currently, ML nodes support any CUDA-enabled GPUs, including

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Currently, ML nodes support any CUDA-enabled GPUs, including the following:
```

- [NVIDIA G-series instances](https://aws.amazon.com/nvidia/)
- [AWS Inferentia](https://aws.amazon.com/machine-learning/inferentia/)

> If you need GPU power, you can provision GPU instances through [Amazon EC2](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/). For more information on how to provision a GPU instance, see [Recommended GPU Instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dlami/latest/devguide/gpu.html).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you need GPU power, you can provision GPU instances through Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud ([Amazon EC2])(https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/). For more information on how to provision a GPU instance, see [Recommended GPU Instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dlami/latest/devguide/gpu.html).
```

Reviewer 4: I'm not certain if I added the parentheses in the right place, but Amazon EC2 needs to be defined on first appearance.

## Supported images

> You can use GPU acceleration with both [Docker images](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker) and [Amazon Machine Images (AMI)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AMIs.html).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can use GPU acceleration with both [Docker images](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker) and [Amazon Machine Images (AMIs)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AMIs.html).
```

> You can use GPU acceleration with both [Docker images](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker) and [Amazon Machine Images (AMIs)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AMIs.html).

Reviewer: We support cuda version 11.6, so we support nvidia/cuda docker with 11.6 version. We tested with docker `nvidia/cuda:11.6.2-cudnn8-devel-ubuntu20.04`

## Setting up a GPU-accelerated ML node

> Depending on the GPU, you can provision a GPU-accelerated ML node using automated initialization scripts or manually. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Depending on the GPU, you can provision a GPU-accelerated ML node manually or by using automated initialization scripts. 
```

> ### Mount an nvidia-uvm device

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Mounting an nvidia-uvm device
```

> NVIDIA uses CUDA®, to increase node performance. In order to take advantage of CUDA, you need to make sure that your drivers include the `nvidia-uvm` kernel inside the `/dev` directory. To check for the kernel, enter `ls -al /dev | grep nvidia-uvm`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
NVIDIA uses CUDA to increase node performance. In order to take advantage of CUDA, you need to make sure that your drivers include the `nvidia-uvm` kernel inside the `/dev` directory. To check for the kernel, enter `ls -al /dev | grep nvidia-uvm`.
```

> If the `nvidia-uvm` kernel does does not exist, run `nvidia-uvm-init.sh`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If the `nvidia-uvm` kernel does not exist, run `nvidia-uvm-init.sh`:
```

```
#!/bin/bash
## Script to initialize nvidia device nodes.
## https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-installation-guide-linux/index.html#runfile-verifications
/sbin/modprobe nvidia
if [ "$?" -eq 0 ]; then
  # Count the number of NVIDIA controllers found.
  NVDEVS=`lspci | grep -i NVIDIA`
  N3D=`echo "$NVDEVS" | grep "3D controller" | wc -l`
  NVGA=`echo "$NVDEVS" | grep "VGA compatible controller" | wc -l`
  N=`expr $N3D + $NVGA - 1`
  for i in `seq 0 $N`; do
    mknod -m 666 /dev/nvidia$i c 195 $i
  done
  mknod -m 666 /dev/nvidiactl c 195 255
else
  exit 1
fi
/sbin/modprobe nvidia-uvm
if [ "$?" -eq 0 ]; then
  # Find out the major device number used by the nvidia-uvm driver
  D=`grep nvidia-uvm /proc/devices | awk '{print $1}'`
  mknod -m 666 /dev/nvidia-uvm c $D 0
  mknod -m 666 /dev/nvidia-uvm-tools c $D 0
else
  exit 1
fi
```

> After verification that `nvidia-uvm` exists under `/dev`, you can start OpenSearch inside your cluster. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After verifying that `nvidia-uvm` exists under `/dev`, you can start OpenSearch inside your cluster. 
```

> ### Prepare AWS Inferentia

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Preparing AWS Inferentia
```

> Depending on your Linux operating system running on AWS Inferentia, you can use the following commands and scripts to set provision an ML node and get OpenSearch running inside your cluster. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Depending on the Linux operating system running on AWS Inferentia, you can use the following commands and scripts to provision an ML node and run OpenSearch inside your cluster. 
```

> Download OpenSearch. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Download OpenSearch: 
```

```
cd ~; wget https://artifacts.opensearch.org/releases/bundle/opensearch/2.5.0/opensearch-2.5.0-linux-x64.tar.gz
tar -xvf opensearch-2.5.0-linux-x64.tar.gz
```

> Then, export OpenSearch and set up your environment variables. For this example, `OPENSEARCH_HOME` = `opensearch-2.5.0`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Then export OpenSearch and set up your environment variables. For this example, `OPENSEARCH_HOME` = `opensearch-2.5.0`:
```

```
echo "export OPENSEARCH_HOME=~/opensearch-2.5.0" | tee -a ~/.bash_profile
echo "export PYTORCH_VERSION=1.12.1" | tee -a ~/.bash_profile
source ~/.bash_profile
```

> Next, create a shell script file called `prepare_torch_neuron.sh`. You can copy and customize one the following examples based on your Linux operating system.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Next, create a shell script file called `prepare_torch_neuron.sh`. You can copy and customize one of the following examples based on your Linux operating system:
```

- [Ubuntu 20.04](#ubuntu-2004)
- [Amazon Linux 2](#amazon-linux2)

After you've run the scripts, exit your current terminal and open a new terminal to start OpenSearch.

> GPU acceleration has only been tested on Ubuntu 20.04 and Amazon Linux 2. However, other you can use other Linux operating systems.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
GPU acceleration has only been tested on Ubuntu 20.04 and Amazon Linux 2. However, you can use other Linux operating systems.
```

################################################################################################################

# Install OS headers
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-$(uname -r) -y

# Install Neuron Driver
sudo apt-get install aws-neuronx-dkms -y

####################################################################################
# Warning: If Linux kernel is updated as a result of OS package update
#          Neuron driver (aws-neuron-dkms) should be re-installed after reboot
####################################################################################

# Install Neuron Tools
sudo apt-get install aws-neuronx-tools -y

######################################################
#   Only for Ubuntu 20 - Install Python3.7
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:deadsnakes/ppa
sudo apt-get install python3.7
######################################################
# Install Python venv and activate Python virtual environment to install    
# Neuron pip packages.
cd ~
sudo apt-get install -y python3.7-venv g++
python3.7 -m venv pytorch_venv
source pytorch_venv/bin/activate
pip install -U pip

> # Set Pip repository  to point to the Neuron repository

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
# Set pip repository to point to the Neuron repository
```

pip config set global.extra-index-url https://pip.repos.neuron.amazonaws.com

#Install Neuron PyTorch
pip install torch-neuron torchvision

> # If need to trace neuron model, install torch neuron with this command

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
# If you need to trace the neuron model, install torch neuron with this command
```

# pip install torch-neuron neuron-cc[tensorflow] "protobuf==3.20.1" torchvision

> # If need to trace neuron model, install transformers for tracing Huggingface model.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
# If you need to trace neuron model, install the transformers for tracing the Huggingface model.
```

# pip install transformers

# Copy torch neuron lib to OpenSearch
PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH=~/pytorch_venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/torch_neuron/lib/
mkdir -p $OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron; cp -r $PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH/ $OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron
export PYTORCH_EXTRA_LIBRARY_PATH=$OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron/lib/libtorchneuron.so
echo "export PYTORCH_EXTRA_LIBRARY_PATH=$OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron/lib/libtorchneuron.so" | tee -a ~/.bash_profile

# Increase JVm stack size to >=2MB
echo "-Xss2m" | tee -a $OPENSEARCH_HOME/config/jvm.options
# Increase max file descriptors to 65535
echo "$(whoami) - nofile 65535" | sudo tee -a /etc/security/limits.conf
# max virtual memory areas vm.max_map_count to 262144
sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144
```

> #### Amazon Linux2

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Amazon Linux 2
```

# - DO NOT skip 'aws-neuron-dkms' install or upgrade step, you MUST install or upgrade to latest Neuron driver
################################################################################################################
# Install OS headers
sudo yum install kernel-devel-$(uname -r) kernel-headers-$(uname -r) -y
# Install Neuron Driver
####################################################################################
# Warning: If Linux kernel is updated as a result of OS package update
#          Neuron driver (aws-neuron-dkms) should be re-installed after reboot
####################################################################################
sudo yum install aws-neuronx-dkms -y
# Install Neuron Tools
sudo yum install aws-neuronx-tools -y

# Install Python venv and activate Python virtual environment to install    
# Neuron pip packages.
cd ~
sudo yum install -y python3.7-venv gcc-c++
python3.7 -m venv pytorch_venv
source pytorch_venv/bin/activate
pip install -U pip

# Set Pip repository  to point to the Neuron repository
pip config set global.extra-index-url https://pip.repos.neuron.amazonaws.com

> #Install Neuron PyTorch

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
# Install Neuron PyTorch
```

Author: This is in a script, so does not need to be formatted like markdown.

pip install torch-neuron torchvision

> # If need to trace neuron model, install torch neuron with this command

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
# If you need to trace the neuron model, install torch neuron with this command
```

# pip install torch-neuron neuron-cc[tensorflow] "protobuf<4" torchvision

> # If need to run a traced neuron model, install transformers for tracing Huggingface model.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
# If you need to run the trace neuron model, install transformers for tracing Huggingface model.
```

# pip install transformers

# Copy torch neuron lib to OpenSearch
PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH=~/pytorch_venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/torch_neuron/lib/
mkdir -p $OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron; cp -r $PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH/ $OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron
export PYTORCH_EXTRA_LIBRARY_PATH=$OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron/lib/libtorchneuron.so
echo "export PYTORCH_EXTRA_LIBRARY_PATH=$OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron/lib/libtorchneuron.so" | tee -a ~/.bash_profile
# Increase JVm stack size to >=2MB
echo "-Xss2m" | tee -a $OPENSEARCH_HOME/config/jvm.options
# Increase max file descriptors to 65535
echo "$(whoami) - nofile 65535" | sudo tee -a /etc/security/limits.conf
# max virtual memory areas vm.max_map_count to 262144
sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144
```

> OpenSearch should now be running inside your GPU-accelerated cluster. However, if any errors occur during provisioning, you can install the GPU-accelerator drives manually.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
OpenSearch should now be running inside your GPU-accelerated cluster. However, if any errors occur during provisioning, you can install the GPU-accelerator drivers manually.
```

> OpenSearch should now be running inside your GPU-accelerated cluster. However, if any errors occur during provisioning, you can install the GPU accelerator drivers manually.

Reviewer: After running the scripts, user need to open a new terminal to make some setting take effect like "Increase max file descriptors to 65535" part. Then user can start OpenSearch normally

> ## (AWS Inferntia) Install GPU accelerator drivers manually

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## (AWS Inferentia) Installing GPU accelerator drivers manually
```

Reviewer 4: "GPU accelerator" is hyphenated in the preceding sentence. I'm assuming it should not be.

> ## (AWS Inferentia) Installing GPU accelerator drivers manually

Reviewer: Only the first step of this part is for "Installing GPU accelerator drivers", suggest change the title to cover the other steps
```suggestion
## (AWS Inferentia) Prepare ML node manually
```

> If the previous two scripts do not provision your GPU-accelerated node properly, you can install the drivers for AWS Inferentia manually.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If the previous two scripts do not provision your GPU-accelerated node properly, you can install the drivers for AWS Inferentia manually:
```

1. Deploy an AWS accelerator instance based on your chosen Linux operating system. For instructions, see [Deploy on AWS accelerator instance](https://awsdocs-neuron.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/frameworks/torch/torch-neuron/setup/pytorch-install.html#deploy-on-aws-ml-accelerator-instance).

> 2. (Optional) To monitor GPU usage of your accelerator instance, install [Neuron tools](https://awsdocs-neuron.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/frameworks/torch/torch-neuron/setup/pytorch-install.html), which allows models to be used inside your instance.

Reviewer 4: "the GPU usage"? Also, the page at the link references PyTorch Neuron. "Neuron Tools" is located here: https://awsdocs-neuron.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/tools/index.html.

> 2. (Optional) To monitor GPU usage of your accelerator instance, install [Neuron tools](https://awsdocs-neuron.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/frameworks/torch/torch-neuron/setup/pytorch-install.html), which allows models to be used inside your instance.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. (Optional) To monitor GPU usage of your accelerator instance, install [Neuron tools](https://awsdocs-neuron.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/frameworks/torch/torch-neuron/setup/pytorch-install.html), which allows models to be used inside your instance:
```

  ```
  # Install Neuron Tools
  sudo apt-get install aws-neuronx-tools -y
  ```

  ```
  # Add Neuron tools your PATH
  export PATH=/opt/aws/neuron/bin:$PATH
  ```
  
  ```
  # Test Neuron tools
  neuron-top
  ```

> 4. Copy the Neuron library into OpenSearch. The following command uses a directory named `opensearch-2.5.0`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Copy the Neuron library into OpenSearch. The following command uses a directory named `opensearch-2.5.0`:
```

> 4. Copy the Neuron library into OpenSearch. The following command uses a directory named `opensearch-2.5.0`:

Reviewer: This should be step 3 ?

> 4. Copy the Neuron library into OpenSearch. The following command uses a directory named `opensearch-2.5.0`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Copy the Neuron library into OpenSearch. The following command assume your OpenSearch directory is `~/opensearch-2.5.0`:
```

Author: I'm going to leave this one as is, unless we have a good reason for specifically instructing that user make a `opensearch` directory. It would be more accurate to say, "Use the directory where you installed OpenSearch. For this example, we installed OpenSearch in `~/opensearch-2.5.0`.

  ```
  OPENSEARCH_HOME=~/opensearch-2.5.0
  ```

> 5. Activate  the `pytorch` virtual environment.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. Activate  the `pytorch` virtual environment:
```

> 5. Activate  the `pytorch` virtual environment:

Reviewer: This should be merged to last step

   ```
   source pytorch_venv/bin/activate
   ```
 

> 6. Set the `PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PAT` path. In this example, we create a `pytorch` virtual environment in the OPENSEARCH_HOME folder:

Reviewer: This should be merged to last step, it's just part of "Copy the Neuron library into OpenSearch" step

   ```

>    PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH=~/pytorch_venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/torch_neuron/lib/

Reviewer: This command assumes user create python virtual environment in this folder `~/pytorch_venv` . This work should be on in Step 1

  mkdir -p $OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron; cp -r $PYTORCH_NEURON_LIB_PATH/ $OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron
  export PYTORCH_EXTRA_LIBRARY_PATH=$OPENSEARCH_HOME/lib/torch_neuron/lib/libtorchneuron.so
  ```

> 4. To make sure you have enough memory to upload a model, increase the JVM stack size to `>+2MB`. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. To make sure you have enough memory to upload a model, increase the JVM stack size to `>+2MB`:
```

> 7. To make sure you have enough memory to upload a model, increase the JVM stack size to `>+2MB`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. To make sure you have enough stack size to load and run a model, increase the JVM stack size to `>+2MB`:
```

  ```
  echo "-Xss2m" | sudo tee -a $OPENSEARCH_HOME/config/jvm.options
  ```

5. Start OpenSearch. 

### Troubleshooting

> Due to the high memory required to load models, you might encounter the following error when trying to run OpenSearch in a GPU-accelerated cluster. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Due to the high memory required to load models, you might encounter the following error when trying to run OpenSearch in a GPU-accelerated cluster: 
```

> Due to the high memory required to load models, you might encounter the following error when trying to run OpenSearch in a GPU-accelerated cluster: 

Reviewer: These error is not from high memory usage, it's for file descriptor.

Author: Why are we setting the `vm.max_map_count` in the second command then?

Reviewer: I mean the first error is for file descriptor.

```
[1]: max file descriptors [8192] for opensearch process is too low, increase to at least [65535]
[2]: max virtual memory areas vm.max_map_count [65530] is too low, increase to at least [262144]
```

> To troubleshoot this error, run the following command. This command overrides the `vm.max_map_count` limit to the minimum requirement.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To troubleshoot this error, run the following command. This command overrides the `vm.max_map_count` limit to the minimum requirement:
```

Reviewer 4: "to the minimum requirement" is a bit unclear. Can we clarify?

```
echo "$(whoami) - nofile 65535" | sudo tee -a /etc/security/limits.conf
```

> With the limit increased, run this command to increase the `vm.max_map_count` to `262114`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With the limit increased, run this command to increase the `vm.max_map_count` to `262114`:
```

```
sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144
```

## Next steps

> If you want to try out GPU-accelerated cluster using AWS Inferentia with a pre-trained HuggingFace model, see [Compiling and Deploying HuggingFace Pretrained BERT](https://awsdocs-neuron.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/src/examples/pytorch/bert_tutorial/tutorial_pretrained_bert.html).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you want to try a GPU-accelerated cluster using AWS Inferentia with a pretrained HuggingFace model, see [Compiling and Deploying HuggingFace Pretrained BERT](https://awsdocs-neuron.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/src/examples/pytorch/bert_tutorial/tutorial_pretrained_bert.html).
```
